---
title: Week 3
documentclass: amsart
author: Arden Rasmussen
date: \today
fontsize: 12pt
---

# Mesh #

I need to implement boundary condition parsing in the PSLG, and when I make the
mesh constraint system, I need to be able to specify the boundary edges, So
that I can then use the boundary conditions in the actual FEA. I should make a
new struct that stores the boundary edge, and the values representing the
boundary condition. I don't think that this should be too difficult.

I really need to implement constrained mesh generation. This has proven
difficult in the past. I should re-read the Sloan paper and try their method
again, although they annoyingly don't give the FORTRAN code :(. Read through it
very carefully, and give it a try. I'm pretty sure that I have the
unconstrained version working fine. The constraint implementation is also where
the boundary conditions will be propagated into the mesh from the PSLG. I have
two ideas on how to do this. One way is to store a list of edge references with
the associated boundary condition, or change each edge to have no boundary
condition, and then change the appropriate edges. The second would be simpler,
but the first would be better.

Then I need to implement the triangle virus. This does not seem too bad. Just a
variation on depth first searching. I think that I should be able to implement
it fairly quickly. Just keep a list of the newly infected triangles, then
remove the last infected triangles. Repeating the process should remove all
unwanted triangles.

Finally we do the mesh refinement. I think that I will use Chews algorithm.
This I don't think will be to hard to get working. The only somewhat
challenging part is the edge splitting. If I'm splitting a constrained edge, I
need to make sure to propagate the boundary conditions to the two new splits.

# Refinement #

* Which boundary conditions should be implemented, and how?
    * Dirichlet. Just a constant value, or time dependent?
* Thoughts on boundary condition implementation? Should every edge have a
    boundary condition, and just have a null condition, or should they be
    stored by reference to an edge. What about in the file? Should the file
    have a null condition for each edge? This would make it easier to read, but
    would result in a large file size.
